---
layout: post
title: YAML
date: 2018-08-12
---

# What is YAML?

"YAML" is a recursive initialism. "YAML" stands for "YAML Ain't Markup Language." YAML was created in or before 2001 by Ingy döt Net, Clark Evans, and Oren Ben-Kiki.

The [home page of YAML](http://yaml.org/) describes YAML as:

> YAML is a human friendly data serialization standard for all programming languages.

The [language specification page of YAML](http://yaml.org/spec/) describes YAML as:

> YAML™ (rhymes with “camel”) is a human-friendly, cross language, Unicode based data serialization language designed around the common native data structures of agile programming languages. It is broadly useful for programming needs ranging from configuration files to Internet messaging to object persistence to data auditing. Together with the Unicode standard for characters, the YAML specification provides all the information necessary to understand YAML Version 1.2 and to creating programs that process YAML information. 

The [About page of the YAML website](http://yaml.org/about.html) describes YAML as:

> YAML(tm) is an international collaboration to make a data serialization language which is both human readable and computationally powerful. The founding members of YAML are Ingy döt Net (author of the Perl module Data::Denter), Clark Evans, and Oren Ben-Kiki...YAML was first publicized with a <?xmlhack?> article on 12 May 2001...

# What is the file extension for YAML?

The [FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) page for YAML](http://yaml.org/faq.html) says:

> Is there an official extension for YAML files?
>
> Please use ".yaml" when possible.

# What does YAML look like?

The ["Get Started" page of YAML](http://yaml.org/start.html) has the following example:

```
--- !clarkevans.com/^invoice
invoice: 34843
date   : 2001-01-23
bill-to: &id001
    given  : Chris
    family : Dumars
    address:
        lines: |
            458 Walkman Dr.
            Suite #292
        city    : Royal Oak
        state   : MI
        postal  : 48046
ship-to: *id001
product:
    - sku         : BL394D
      quantity    : 4
      description : Basketball
      price       : 450.00
    - sku         : BL4438H
      quantity    : 1
      description : Super Hoop
      price       : 2392.00
tax  : 251.42
total: 4443.52
comments: >
    Late afternoon is best.
    Backup contact is Nancy
    Billsmer @ 338-4338.
```

# What do the symbols in YAML mean?

See the [reference page of YAML](http://yaml.org/refcard.html).
